# Moral-Machine-Prediction-Program
A Java program which predicts humans choices on which group of persons/individual a self-driving car 
should choose to sacrifice/save in situations where either choice results in a fatality for one of the groups, then 
allows the car to make a choice based on the average value assigned to each group.

Computational Morality, also known as machine morality, involves the analysis of decisions made by artificial intelligence. With the rise of artificial intelligence, technology’s influence on society and the decisions we make is becoming rapidly more prevalent, as we hand over the reins of our lives to computers. Accordingly, concerns about the ability of computers to make moral decisions in alignment with the ethics of human have come to the forefront. In response, many studies and research on the ethical principles of machines and the moral guidelines they should follow have cropped up. One such study is the Moral Machine Experiment, a thought experiment developed by a group at MIT exploring the moral problems encountered by self-driving vehicles.
 Scenarios are presented to the user of their online platform in which participants must choose between saving the life of one group over another in a fatal car accident. The scenario’s structures are all variations on the trolley problem, where a self-driving car has two options: continue on the vehicle’s path and kill he passengers in the car or the pedestrians in the car’s path or alter its course and swerve to save the lives of those passengers but kill another group of pedestrians. The user then must choose whether they want to act to save the lives of the pedestrians/passengers who would be killed if the autonomous car chose not to act, or if they want to redirect the cars path to preserve the lives its transporting, at the expense of another group.
Scenarios are generated in groups of thirteen and contain at least two dilemmas focused on each of six dimensions of moral preferences: character species, age, gender, whether they are pregnant, their social status, their adherence to the law and their physical fitness. Although the scenario format remains the same, each scenario rotates through a various cast of characters, with a different combination in each scenario that tests the range of dimensions. Characters featured in the scenarios include individuals like girl, boy, Male Doctor, Female Athlete, Executive Female, Large Man, homeless, old man, old woman, dog, criminal, stroller, and so on.

